[audio playing...]
across the ages, there has always been
Russian colonialism, censorship, and
attempts to erase our culture. Imagine
losing the arts and artifacts that
represents your history, your identity
in museums in Houston and Mariupol,
there are now empty rooms where Russians
have taken everything.
How would you feel to have another
country so your heritage on the two
houses in their own museums and DeRuyter
history?
Two weeks into the full scale invasion,
Iraqis hit the ivantage historical and
Local History Museum.
Insights was the works of Maria prima
chenko. A world renowned artists could
you incarnate with natural pigments. The
museum run totally on fire. Totally.
Some people from the village with just
their bare hands tried to rescue her
works. It was a total shock.
I began calling different people asking
if they need help to preserve our
cultural heritage. This is how I came
into contact with Alessandro, such
researcher and curator of the factor
School of photography.
[audio playing...]
The whole of January was full of this
pre escalation tension. And I had been
talking with Surya libertines key the
director of the Museum of Harkey School
of photography, about how we should
prepare our collections for evacuation.
We have amazing photography archives.
They are not just Ukrainian heritage,
but world heritage. The core of the
collection is the artwork of Harkey
School of photography. It wasn't an
institution but an informal community of
three generations of like minded
artists.
It emerged in the late 1960s and
included top level photographers like
Barry's Mihaylova and his friends. If
any Pavlov Victor Cogito for a month at
golf course and his salon skin, others
whose work in the 60s 70s and 80s
expanded the borders of the medium and
demonstrated how it can overcome
censorship, trying to get through the
muteness of late Soviet epoch.
On the one hand, what they were doing
was really resistance. But on the other
hand, it was not manifested or obvious.
These photographers saw their practice
as a tool to carve out an alternative
space. Before the collapse of the USSR,
they had few chances to present their
works in public. For instance, the first
generation the so called Lima group,
which is translated as time from
Russian, had only one exhibition
throughout the whole history of the
group, which is said to be closed in a
couple of hours after opening.
So they chose to create an inner circle
of photographers, who were thinking the
same way, sharing the thoughts and
ideas. The photos from this generation
hold the phenomenon and history of this
society, their relationships and bonds.
Preserving this archives was what began
the Harkey School of photography and has
become a space to unite researchers and
spotlights Ukrainian photographers from
across the decades until now.
When the full scale invasion began, I
had it to the west, because the priority
was the life of my family.
For a week, I was just in a complete
state of Anna BIOSIS. We were all numb
and frozen. Just watching what was going
on.
Then I received a message from Veronica
that people were working to secure the
archives.
It was a wake up call that I was more or
less safe and now must take care of what
we can.
We started talking quietly to people who
had chosen to stay in hockey. Those were
John broker and CO Alexey of poker zone
has a horrible love this love customers
choke and Alexander from them.
We tried not to bring any attention to
where the archives were located and what
we were doing.
volunteers gathered at the museum and
held back everything up. They also went
to other photographers and took their
private archives. And for a moment, the
museum turned into a spot to bring all
cultural stuff from around the city and
transported. I cannot even imagine what
level of courage you need to think about
art in this moment.
In a situation of complete danger
People have different reactions, fight,
freeze, or flight.
These volunteers decided to completely
on biological reaction, they chose to
fight.
They were incredibly brave. We own them
the whole security of the museum.
They are our own personal heroes.
Now I feel that not only photography but
art in general in Ukraine is in a very
tricky position.
When you see all these photos of ruined
buildings of wounded and killed people,
you start asking yourself, What is this
for?
In these days of such extensive media
coverage, it risks losing weight.
It is a huge challenge for our
photographers to find this language that
will manage to make people stop
scrolling and pause. That will give some
meaningful narration
but photography has the possibility to
use both aspects, creating a historical
document and adding an individual touch
to the message.
And I believe this is the role of
photography now.